> [!CAUTION]
> This repository is under construction while our paper is under review. If you require assistance using it, please contact Sebastian Waz (scw8734@nyu.edu) and Samuel Mehr (sam@auckland.ac.nz)

# A population-level divide in human sensitivity to musical harmony
This repository contains data, code, and materials for "A population-level divide in human sensitivity to musical harmony" (Waz et al., 2026, PsyArXiv). To reproduce the manuscript, knit the R Markdown file `writing/manuscript.Rmd`.

The overall structure of the repository is as follows:

- __game/__ contains code that can be used to run a standalone version of the *Are You a Super-Listener?* game which was used to collect the data reported here. For details of its contents, see `game/README.md`.
- __analysis/__ contains the raw data in both .csv and .mat (MATLAB) formats as well as MATLAB functions to analyze these data as reported in the manuscript. Analysis outputs are also stored here and in the `results` and `results-new` folders.
- __results/__ contains analysis outputs that are restricted to the pre-registration data.
- __results-new/__ contains outputs for the post-registration data.
- __writing/__ contains the manuscript files, including several R functions used to get data and generate plots within `writing/manuscript.Rmd` when it is knit.
- __viz/__ contains a screenshot of the game which is inserted into the manuscript. All other graphics are generated by knitting `writing/manuscript.Rmd`.

The MATLAB function `analysis/getAllDataForRMarkdown.m` generates the .csv files used to produce the tables and figures. This function takes one logical-valued argument which defaults to `false`. When this argument is set to `true`, then all the .mat files from which the .csv files are derived get recomputed. (This takes a while to compute the *p*-values for the dip tests.)

The code inside `game` must be hosted on a local testing server and accessed via a web browser to run properly. Several options exist to accomplish this such as the Live Preview function of [Adobe Brackets](https://brackets.io/?lang=en) or [Python's http functions](https://docs.python.org/3/library/http.server.html#command-line-interface), but the easiest way to demo the experiment is to access the the game itself at https://www.themusiclab.org/quizzes/scram.
